Finite initial native capture recovery — source freeze receipt
2026-10-06; /root/fix_review

Only two repository files changed:
requirements/verification-system/tests/e2e/support/supervise-node-test.mjs
requirements/verification-system/tests/support/supervised-tool-reclamation-tests.mjs

Actual old-implementation business red
/private/tmp/vibe-fs-initial-capture-native-red-20261006.log
Fixed Node v22.23.3, authorized native ps and exact owned signals; one formal
registered test selected through native node --test (not a fresh formal suite).
1 test, 0 pass, 1 fail. The fixture had actual marker/ancestry and reached the
real /bin/ps invalid-column failure. It preserved that Error object at caller
catch, but monitor PID/PGID 28776 was Ts; tool 28777 and child 28778 remained live
in actual PGID 28777. Foreign-alive and exact HOME-removed assertions had passed.
Failure was the strict caller resource-empty assertion, not readiness or a missing
API. Finally reclaimed the captured exact groups; no cleanup Aggregate occurred.

Implementation
Separate root freeze/capture from the initial query. Keep the original initial
Error if that query fails, still stop only the supervisor's original root group,
and attempt the existing frozen native observation within the same deadline.
Every successful snapshot immediately contributes actual descendant groups.
After successful capture, still surface the original failure so the existing
failure-drain waits for those known groups before returning that failure.
If frozen capture also fails, AggregateError retains both original errors and
uses the first as cause. Existing root SIGKILL finally runs once; no detached
group killing or guessed ownership was added.
SIGSTOP ESRCH and a missing root in the frozen snapshot cannot report complete
capture. They reject, and a saved initial error remains reachable. The missing-root
branch later received the real native incomplete-snapshot evidence described below.
ESRCH remains statically checked without an established native test cut.

New test coverage
Single initial-fault case independently observes and pauses its actual monitor,
then throws the real native ps error WITHOUT returning that positive oracle to
the supervisor. Fixed code must recover an actual nonempty frozen root snapshot
with the original parent chain, then only failure-drain permits the controlled
monitor to resume and perform natural lifeline cleanup. At caller rejection:
original error reachable, known tool and monitor groups empty, foreign alive,
exact HOME gone. Whole fixture finally separately proves exact group drain.

Double initial/frozen-fault case throws two distinct real native ps errors.
Neither snapshot is delivered successfully to the supervisor. It asserts both
original errors reachable, controlled monitor still paused and tool/child live,
no false resumption, foreign alive, HOME gone, and final exact fixture reclamation.
This is explicit incomplete capture, not a complete unknown-inventory promise.

Green and mutation evidence
/private/tmp/vibe-fs-initial-capture-native-green-20261006.log
2 new tests, 2 pass, 0 fail/skip/TODO, 2793.935875ms.

Manually changed only the new AggregateError branch to throw the recovery error.
/private/tmp/vibe-fs-initial-capture-primary-mutant-20261006.log
1 test, 0 pass, 1 fail. Actual failure:
  primaryPreserved=false, cleanupPreserved=true, distinctOriginals=true
Original cause preservation expected all true. Both failures were real ps calls.
Restored supervisor from saved exact bytes immediately and cmp succeeded.

/private/tmp/vibe-fs-initial-capture-reclamation-native-green-20261006.log
All six original and new native reclamation scenarios: 6 pass, 0 fail, 0 skip,
0 TODO, 7994.07375ms. This post-restoration result includes normal cleanup,
initial fault, initial+frozen double fault, freeze fault, drain fault, and the
existing freeze+failure-drain double fault. Existing assertions were retained.

Additional root boundary attempt and final retained scope
/private/tmp/vibe-fs-initial-capture-root-boundaries-native-20261006.log
One run of two new boundary candidates: 1 pass, 1 fail, 2773.043167ms.
Do not present this as a green two-test run or combine runs into a single 7/0.

The passing missing-root case first executes actual full ps and proves the real
root remains present/frozen and the registered tool/monitor parent chain is intact.
It then executes actual ps -p selecting only those recorded monitor/tool/child
PIDs and returns that original stdout as an explicitly incomplete snapshot.
The caller must preserve its initial native Error and reject the absent root;
the controlled monitor/tool remain live, foreign remains alive, HOME is removed,
and fixture finally independently reclaims exactly its recorded groups. This
proves the boundary rejects real but incomplete native rows; it does not claim
the standard full ps command ordinarily omits the root in this fashion.

The failed root-gone candidate killed only its previously recorded root group and
observed zero live root rows, but the expected native ESRCH/kill error was not
reachable. The initial native error was preserved. The test failed at that
specific assertion, not from a demonstrated production contract violation.
Its full cause structure was not printed in that log, so the exact OS explanation
is not retrospectively proved. In particular, synchronous inspection means that
zero non-zombie rows does not establish that the parent has yielded/reaped the
group or that kill must return ESRCH. Final exact fixture cleanup did not fail.

Root explicitly authorized removal of that unestablished candidate and its
exclusive root-kill setup. Its failure record is retained; no assertion was
weakened into a pass and no retry was used. No production changes were made for
this attempt, and the shared synchronous inspection API was not altered.

Final registration has seven scenarios: the prior six plus missing-root. Scenario
captureFailure uses the finite values inspection/missing-root rather than stacked
flags. After removing the failed draft, only Node --check for both owned files,
git diff --check, and a read-only registration/removed-branch check were run;
the already green six and passing one were not rerun. Final combined fresh
verification belongs to root.

Native command family
/private/tmp/node-v22.23.3-darwin-arm64/bin/node --test --test-reporter=spec
--test-name-pattern=<exact finite test selection>
requirements/verification-system/tests/006.test.mjs
All physical test executions used require_escalated. No Fable build, formal
runner invocation, commit, push, or unrelated source edit by this agent.
git diff --check passed on the owned two-file scope.

Limits that remain
The initial error in the new example is an immediate native query failure. If
initial ps already consumes the entire original cleanup deadline, recovery has
no additional budget and remains failed/unknown. This finite fix does not turn
gen206's actual ETIMEDOUT into a cleanup certificate. It does not attribute
743's six orphan processes, close monitor-before-registration/parent-gone races,
or prove general unknown inventory. Readiness, budgets, workers, verdict renewal,
diagnostic semantics and monitor creation protocol remain unchanged.

SHA256 at source freeze
supervise-node-test.mjs:
9773d420e490bdfd0c6fee2766dd2f28454e8e15acb5b12c40cd51fd4fbff072
supervised-tool-reclamation-tests.mjs (final seven-scenario source):
a94dcb7ffb1dc821babd2c70d5a85c0856e430b4c085513d77338867dd94a77a
